# Introduction
The Java grep application is a text-searching tool mirroring the functionality of the Linux grep command. It allows users to specify a regular expression pattern and recursively search through directories for files containing lines that match the pattern. The application provides functionalities to read files, match patterns, and output the matched lines to a specified destination. The app showcases power of core Java functionalities, libraries, lambda expressions, IDE (IntelliJ) integration, and Docker support for containerization. Containerization allows the application and its dependencies to be packaged together into a standardized unit called a Docker container. This container includes everything needed to run the application, including the Java runtime environment, libraries, and any other dependencies.

# Quick Start
The app searches for a text pattern recursively in a given directory, and output matched lines to a file. The app takes three arguments:
regex rootPath outFile
- regex: a special text string for describing a search pattern
- rootPath: root directory path
- outFile: output file name
  Similar to
  egrep -r {regex} {rootPath} > {outFile}
  Following steps give overview of the application process-
  Initialization: Initialize an empty list matchedLines to store the lines that match the specified pattern.
  Iterate Over Files: Iterate over each file in the directory structure recursively. The listFilesRecursively(rootDir) function returns a list of file paths under the root directory rootDir.
  Iterate Over Lines: For each file, iterate over each line in the file using the readLines(file) function. This function reads the contents of the file and return a list of lines.
  Pattern Matching: For each line, check if it contains the specified pattern using the containsPattern(line) function. If the line matches the pattern, add it to the matchedLines list.
  Write to File: After processing all files and lines, write the contents of the matchedLines list to an output file using the writeToFile(matchedLines) function.


# Implemenation
## Pseudocode
Method process()
```
matchedLines = []
for file in listFilesRecursively(rootDir)
    for line in readLines(file)
        if containsPattern(line)
            matchedLines.add(line)
writeToFile(matchedLines)
```


## Performance Issue
Consider we want to process a 50GB file. It can indeed pose memory challenges, especially if we are attempting to load the entire file into memory at once or if the processing algorithm requires a large amount of memory per record. To mitigate the problem we can implement Stream processing to read the file sequentially in smaller chunks rather than loading the entire file into memory at once. It operates on streams, which represent a sequence of elements that can be processed sequentially or in parallel.


# Test
1. Checked if the application complied successfully.
2. Created a small text file with the pattern to search.
3. Edited the Run and Debug configuration of the application to provide the appropriate command line arguments. Replaced pattern with the regular expression pattern to search for, inputDirectory with the directory containing the files to search, and outputFilePath with the path to the output file where matched lines will be written.
4. Checked the output file generated by the application to ensure that it contains the expected results. Verified that lines matching the specified pattern are included in the output and that lines not matching the pattern are excluded.
5. Tested the application with various edge cases, such as empty files, files with very large or very small sizes, and directories with nested subdirectories. Ensured that the application behaves correctly and handles these cases.
6. Introduced errors or invalid inputs (e.g., non-existent directory, invalid regular expression pattern) and verified that the application handles them appropriately, such as by displaying error messages or handling exceptions.

# Deployment
After log-in into the Docker account, we create a docker file by specifying the base image for the Docker container which is Alpine Linux distribution with OpenJDK version 8. Then copying the JAR file matching the pattern grep*.jar from the target directory in the Docker build into the /usr/local/app/grep/lib directory inside the container. In the end specify the default command to run when the container starts. It runs the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) with the -jar option to execute the JAR file.


# Improvement
1. Proper comments.
2. Great exception handling.
3. More testing with respect to more advanced regular expressions.